ABOUT SPECIFICATION PATTERN
---------------------------
The Specification pattern (originally defined by Eric Evans and Martin Fowler) is a good way to encapsulate query criteria and to do composition operations. 
Definition of the pattern: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Specification_pattern
M.F and E.E. paper: http://www.martinfowler.com/apsupp/spec.pdf
Although the original pattern worked just with in-memory-objects, we changed the implementation to be based on Lambda-Expressions against EF,
so the performance can be much better.
Composing several expressions with AND, OR, NOT, (composition operations) cannot be done with simple expressions without implementing some ‘plumbing’.
Second reason is that Specifications allows defining a query criterion and simply referencing it. If you would want to do the same you’d need to make a class returning an expression, therefore it would be similar but with no composition, denial, etc. 
Ok, you can do something like: 
Expression<Func<T,bool>> expression = t.property==true; 
Which is really what we can be returning, but our specification implementation allows composition and criteria encapsulation instead of spreading it directly on lambda expressions.
Finally, the use of the composite specification pattern is not mandatory in this Architecture, for instance, instead of using a AllMatching() for specifications you can always use the filter method providing a lambda expression directly.

More examples about SPECIFICATION PATTERN and LINQ:
http://linqspecs.codeplex.com/   (by jfromaniello)

Specifications provide us with a mechanism to know the criteria of the elements we want to search for; 
but it does not know anything about who will perform the search operation thereof. 
In addition to this clear separation of concerns, the creation of these elements also helps us 
to make important domain operations, such as types of search criteria, perfectly clear. 
Otherwise, these would be scattered around different parts of the code, making them more difficult and expensive to modify. 

Finally, another advantage of specifications, as proposed here, is the possibility of performing SPECIFICATION COMPOSITION (logical operations),
 which provides us with a simple mechanism to perform dynamic queries in LINQ.

 La "identidad"

 Este ha sido otro de los puntos en los que hemos hablado mucho desde un punto de vista de diseño, el uso de las identidades o otros mecanismo
 de generación de identidades para los objetos de persistencia (POID - Persisten Object IDentifiers). Realmente buscando un poco en la web uno 
 puede darse cuenta de que es un tema sobre el que se ha discutido mucho y para el que tenemos múltiples soluciones. Desde los detractores ( con toda
 la razon del mundo desde el punto de vista de la correcta utilización de patrones habituales en modelos de dominio, como UoW) 
 de las identidades, http://fabiomaulo.blogspot.com/2008/12/identity-never-ending-story.html, hasta la presentaciòn de otras soluciones como por ejemplo 
 el uso de GUID u algoritmos como HighLow.

 Para nuestro caso, nos hemos basado en el uso de GUID (aunque monótono-crecientes) lo cual nos permitirá tener una gestión efectiva de la identidad
 entre diferentes agregados y escenarios de conversación. Lógicamente, la utilización de un GUID como clave primaria puede tener su efecto en el rendiento
 general de una base de datos ( menos si como es nuestro caso es monótono-creciente) por ello, le recomiendo que revise usted mismo la estrategia que quiere
 seguir y la información sobre las diferntes opciones.

 http://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=25862&seqNum=7, Jimmy Nilsson

 http://www.sqlskills.com/BLOGS/KIMBERLY/post/GUIDs-as-PRIMARY-KEYs-andor-the-clustering-key.aspx, Kiberly L. Tripp
